marlee here is new in class he missed
his first few days because of malaria
and last time on orangutan gari
we saw him finally well enough to join
his new classmates he's having a tough
time and looks like he could still do
with a few days rest things are a bit
more boisterous out here but Marley
doesn't seem to mind being the classroom
plaything but there are some unwelcome
visitors moving in even though they're
small these wild macaques aren't afraid
of tackling the bigger orangutangs and
can be really aggressive a few weeks ago
Robert another orangutan in forest
school was badly bitten and he's a
pretty big boy Marley is still very weak
and needs to avoid getting involved
luckily one of his larger classmates
seems to be looking out for the little
ones with trouble brewing Molly makes a
sharp exit and his Saviour moves into
position and takes up arms while the
macaques are sorting out a few
unresolved issues of their own it's the
perfect time to sneak up sad I'll teach
them some scientists believe orangutangs
are more intelligent than chimps they
have culture and use tools they make
rain hats from leaves use twigs to
Winkle out ants and thankfully for Molly
can also wield a large stick it's this
intelligence that also enables a highly
orangutan to remember which trees are
fruiting in the forest and where to find
them firts if you're going to use tools
it's a good idea to hold on to them
macaques may be small or they're got
guts
and now they've pinched the stick
but at least they're leaving Marley
alone he barely looks like he could make
it out of a paper bag let's hope he can
stay out of trouble long enough to make
a full recovery